::hero-alt

#title
Self-Host Your pdfRest API Service

#description
Choose your product, your deployment type, your security. Full control in your cloud.
::

::card
---
icon: 'lucide:thumbs-up'
icon-size: 86
horizontal: true
---

#title
Free One Week Trial!

#description
All pdfRest Self-Hosted API on AWS products have access to a free one-week trial on the AWS Marketplace for new customers. Get hands-on experience with the Self-Hosted API before without any software charges. Customers are responsible for any related infrastructure costs billed by AWS.
::
<br>
### 

::steps{level=3}


### Choosing Your Product

There are a variety of pdfRest Self-Hosted API products available in the marketplace to suit your document workflow solution requirements.



##### [PDF Toolkit Self-Hosted API](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-lvleu34bj4cn6)


Over 25 powerful API Tools to convert, optimize, modify, inspect, secure, and simplify your digital documents and processing workflows.

Includes all the standard PDF processing tools you'd expect, such as Convert to PDF, Compress PDF, Merge PDFs, and Split PDF, as well as professional-grade tools like Flatten Transparencies, Convert to PDF/A, and Extract Text to prepare your documents for specific use cases, like print, archival, and machine learning.


##### [PDF Forms Pro Self-Hosted API](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-2xxmqtam6s54s)


PDF Forms Pro is a one-stop-shop for automation and batch processing of PDF form documents with all the API Tools you'll need. Avoid manual data entry and save time by directly filling forms with external data. Extract form field values to collect data from multiple documents and aggregate into a single repository. Lock form field values to prevent further modification. Flatten PDF forms to make them universally compatible with all PDF viewing and processing applications. pdfRest offers the only REST API service for processing all PDF form types including Static XFA, Dynamic XFA, and Acroforms.


##### [PDF to Office Pro Self-Hosted API](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-gilhkmjyjxyrs)


PDF to Office Pro has all of the tools for transforming static PDFs into fully editable Microsoft Office formats. This toolkit handles everything you need, seamlessly converting your PDFs into Word documents, Excel spreadsheets, and PowerPoint presentations. PDF to Office Pro integrates effortlessly with any development project. Its intuitive API allows you to seamlessly add powerful PDF conversion capabilities to your applications, streamlining workflows and empowering users to unlock the true potential of their documents.


### Deploying in AWS

Access the [Deployment Documentation](/self-hosted-api-on-aws/deploy-on-aws/) to learn how to deploy the pdfRest Self-Hosted API using an Amazon Machine Image (AMI) or our fully-automated CloudFormation Template (CFN).


::alert{type="secondary" icon="lucide:info"}
All Self-Hosted API products share the same deployment and configuration guides.
::

### Configuring Your Deployment

From the basics of accessing your API deployment to advanced environmental variables , learn all about configuring and optimizing your Self-Hosted API using our [Configuration Documentation](/self-hosted-api-on-aws/configure-aws-deployment/).

### Calling the API

The Deployment and Configuration Documentation will have described (and showed how to configure) the private or public URL used to access your Self-Hosted API deployment.

Whether you use code generated by [The API Lab](https://pdfrest.com/apilab/), or create your own based on the [Self-Hosted API Reference Guide](https://pdfrest.com/pdf-toolkit-self-hosted-reference/), the pdfRest API is universally accessible.

Develop with desktop, web, and mobile applications, no- and low-code solutions such as [Zapier](https://zapier.com/), [Bubble.io](https://bubble.io), [Microsoft Power Automate](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/products/power-automate), and so much more.
