---
title: Frequently Asked Questions
description: Find answers to common questions related to pdfRest Self-Hosted API products on AWS.
meta_title: pdfRest Self-Hosted API on AWS | FAQ
meta_description: Find answers to common questions related to pdfRest Self-Hosted API products on AWS.
---

## General FAQ

::accordion{collapsible default-value="first-item"}
  :::accordion-item
  ---
  value: first-item
  ---
  #title
  Which fulfillment option should I use?
  
  #content
  - The Amazon Machine Image allows you to deploy a single EC2 instance without other infrastructure components. You can use this for small scale processing, batch processing, or other uses that don't require a load balancer or multiple machines.
  - The CloudFormation Template allows you to deploy one or more EC2 instances alongside additional infrastructure. The default parameter settings deploy a scalable group of instances with a load balancer and an Elastic File System volume. This option can use existing infrastructure components (for example, an existing EFS volume), and is suitable for larger scale processing, using HTTPs, or adjusting your available machines to meet your needs.
  :::
::

## CloudFormation FAQ

::accordion{collapsible default-value="first-item"}
  :::accordion-item
  ---
  value: first-item
  ---
  #title
  How does the CloudFormation Stack work?
  
  #content
  - All calls enter through an Internet Gateway in front of an Application Load Balancer.
  - The load balancer will distribute traffic to a Target Group containing EC2 instances that are defined and initialized by the stack's Launch Template, and are grouped by an Auto Scaling Group.
  - All instances created by this group will use the same shared Elastic File System volume, so any file can be processed by any instance.
  :::

  :::accordion-item
  #title
  Which CloudFormation Template parameters must be filled out?
  
  #content
  - The only CFN parameters that are empty and must be filled in prior to using the product are "Stack name" and "Key Pair for SSH".
  - You must also change the "IP Address Range for HTTP and HTTPS" parameter to your IP address, or you will not be able to make calls to the instances. 0.0.0.0/0 will allow all IP addresses.
  - A stack resource label is required, and should be unique for every stack - however the prefilled value will work fine for your first stack.
  - We suggest also changing "IP Address Range for SSH" to your IP address - otherwise you will not be able to SSH onto the EC2 instances.
  :::

  :::accordion-item
  #title
  Do I need to fill in the empty optional parameters?
  
  #content
  - No. If these are left blank, CloudFormation will generate the appropriate resources per the template's instructions.
  - Existing resources can be used by filling in the appropriate CloudFormation parameters.
  :::

## AMI FAQ
::
